# SSL Certificates

Easyling has the ability to proxy HTTPS pages, but to do so, it must
be provided a certificate and private key matching the URL. Otherwise,
the proxy will be unable to identify itself as a valid server, and the
browser will abort the connection for security reasons.

Easyling support can assist in deploying an HTTPS site by providing a
CSR (Certificate Signing Request) to generate the appropriate
certificate if the required information is provided, or the client can
prepare the certificate themselves.

Additionally, a certificate is required to provide a branded Easyling
instance. For more information, you can check the
[Whitelabel](/faq/whitelabel.html) article of the FAQ.

## The protocol

HTTPS (also called HTTP over TLS, HTTP over SSL, and HTTP Secure) is a
protocol for secure communication over a computer network which is
widely used on the Internet. HTTPS consists of communication over
Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) within a connection encrypted by
Transport Layer Security or its predecessor, Secure Sockets Layer. The
main motivation for HTTPS is authentication of the visited website and
protection of the privacy and integrity of the exchanged data.

In its popular deployment on the internet, HTTPS provides
authentication of the website and associated web server with which one
is communicating, which protects against man-in-the-middle
attacks. Additionally, it provides bidirectional encryption of
communications between a client and server, which protects against
eavesdropping and tampering with and/or forging the contents of the
communication. In practice, this provides a reasonable guarantee that
one is communicating with precisely the website that one intended to
communicate with (as opposed to an impostor), as well as ensuring that
the contents of communications between the user and site cannot be
read or forged by any third party.

Historically, HTTPS connections were primarily used for payment
transactions on the World Wide Web, e-mail and for sensitive
transactions in corporate information systems. In the late 2000s and
early 2010s, HTTPS began to see widespread use for protecting page
authenticity on all types of websites, securing accounts and keeping
user communications, identity and web browsing private.  (Courtesy of
Wikipedia)

## Issuing an SSL certificate

Issuing universally accepted certificates is restricted to the
so-called "Root Certificate Authorities". However, root authorities
will generally delegate their powers to "Intermediate Authorities",
who will sign certificates as requested by the end user (provided
ownership of the domain can be verified).  When requesting a
certificate for your whitelabel installation or HTTPS site, you will
most likely interact with an intermediate authority, by providing them
an encrypted configuration file (the Certificate Signing Request),
which the provider consumes to produce a cryptographically signed
certificate.

Using a CSR has several distinct advantages over generating your own
certificate at the issuer: since the the translation proxy support crew is in
control of the final product, we can tailor the request to generate
the certificate we need from you; and since the private key remains
safe with us, you do not need to take special precautions when sending
it.  However, we require some information to be provided to us
beforehand:

1. `countryName_default = ${COUNTRY}`

2. `localityName_default = ${CITY}`

3. `streetAddress_default = ${ADDRESS}`

4. `postalCode_default = ${ZIP}`

5. `0.organizationName_default = ${COMPANY_NAME}`

6. `organizationalUnitName_default = ${ORG_UNIT}`

Issuing a certificate consists of several predetermined steps. First,
a cryptographic key pair is generated, one half public, the other
private. Then, a file indicating the domain the certificate is to be
issued for, as well as various data about the entity holding the
domain (generally, you or your client) is created. This file is then
combined with the public half of the key, and signed with the private
half. The resulting encrypted file is then handed to the issuer, who
verifies the information contained within, and if successful, encodes
the information into a public certificate, signing it with its own
private key. This is the file that needs to be provided to Easyling
support.

## Providing us with a certificate

Following the previous phase, you are now in possession of a
cryptographic certificate, and possibly its private key (if you
elected to create your own certificate instead of requesting a CSR
from us).

If we provided you with a CSR file, you need to send only the
certificate. On its own, the certificate is not viable - it requires
the private key to be useful, thus, it can be sent via email
safely. The private key remains safe with us, and we will use it to
upload the certificate to Google AppEngine, from where it will be
available to authenticate the proxied site to the browser, and enable
HTTPS for the translations.

If you elected to forgo the CSR and generate your own certificate, we
will need the associated private key as well (and any passwords used
to lock the private key). In this case, however, care must be taken to
prevent the certificate falling into the wrong hands: the certificate
and its keyfile, or the keyfile and its password must never travel
together - if the email carrying both is intercepted, the malicious
third party can use it to impersonate your site! Either use two
separate emails, or even two different channels (email and Skype, for
instance) to provide us the key and password and the certificate.
Once we receive the files, we will again upload them to AppEngine
after decrypting the keyfile, at which point it will be available for
use with the proxied site.

N.B.: When selecting an SSL provider, bear in mind that Google only accepts certificates that are either self-signed or signed by a publicly trusted root Certificate Authority. One important point that needs to be highlighted is that the root CA for CloudFlare's Origin certificate system is *not* publicly trusted. Thus, we are unable to make use of Origin certificates generated via CloudFlare's system - in this case, please contact us for a `CSR` file for use with a provider of your choice.

## SSL Manipulation Commands

### Converting private keys to RSA

When uploading the keys into AppEngine, the file must be in RSA
format. To verify, the beginning of the file should be

`-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----` .

If you read

`-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----`,

you need to convert it, using the following command:

```
openssl rsa -in key -out key.rsa.key
```

### Extracting Certificate and Private Key Files from a .pfx / PKCS#12 File (includes both the certificate and the private key)

- export the private key: `openssl pkcs12 -in certname.pfx -nocerts -out key.pem -nodes`

- export the certificate: `openssl pkcs12 -in certname.pfx -nokeys -out cert.pem`

- create RSA key / remove passphrase from the key: `openssl rsa -in key.pem -out server.key`

### Check if a given key matches a certificate (or CSR)

By running these commands on the keyfile and certificate, you can
verify that the key used to generate the certificate matches the one
you have on hand. If the two outputs match, so do the keyfiles. But if
not, your client may have used their own private keys to create the
certificate, which you will have to obtain before forwarding it to us.

- `openssl rsa -noout -modulus -in privateKey.key | openssl md5`

- `openssl x509 -noout -modulus -in certificate.crt | openssl md5`

Alternatively, if you have the CSR as well, you can use the following
command to obtain the checksum of the CSR's key and verify that the
CSR you have on hand was used to generate the certificate.

- `openssl req -noout -modulus -in CSR.csr | openssl md5`
